Add docs section about migrating CKEditor from NPM to CDN (#17041)
ckeditor/ckeditor5: docs/updating/migration-to-cdn/angular.md

import { ClassicEditor, Bold, Essentials, Italic, Mention, Paragraph, Undo } from 'ckeditor5';
import { SlashCommand } from 'ckeditor5-premium-features';

@Component( {
	selector: 'app-root',
	templateUrl: './app.component.html',
	styleUrls: ['./app.component.css'],
	encapsulation: ViewEncapsulation.None,
	imports: [ CKEditorModule ],
	standalone: true
} )
export class AppComponent {
	title = 'angular';

	public Editor = ClassicEditor;
	public config = {
		licenseKey: '<YOUR_LICENSE_KEY>', // Or 'GPL'.
		plugins: [ Bold, Essentials, Italic, Mention, Paragraph, SlashCommand, Undo ],
		toolbar: [ 'undo', 'redo', '|', 'bold', 'italic' ],
		// ... Other configuration ....
	}
}
```

**After:**

```ts
// app.component.ts

import { Component, ViewEncapsulation } from '@angular/core';
import { CKEditorModule } from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular';

@Component( {
	selector: 'app-root',
	templateUrl: './app.component.html',
	styleUrls: ['./app.component.css'],
	encapsulation: ViewEncapsulation.None,
	imports: [ CKEditorModule ],
	standalone: true
} )
export class AppComponent {
	title = 'angular';

	public Editor;
	public config;

	public ngOnInit() {
		// ADDED

> 		loadCKEditorCloud( {
> 			version: '43.0.0'
> 		} )
> 			.then( this._setupEditor.bind( this ) );

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		loadCKEditorCloud( {
			version: '43.0.0'
		} )
		.then( this._setupEditor.bind( this ) );
```

	}

	private _setupEditor( cloud ) {
		const {
			ClassicEditor, Bold, Essentials, Italic,
			Mention, Paragraph, SlashCommand, Undo
		} = cloud.CKEditor;

		this.Editor = ClassicEditor;
		this.config = {
			licenseKey: '<YOUR_LICENSE_KEY>', // Or 'GPL'.
			plugins: [ Bold, Essentials, Italic, Mention, Paragraph, SlashCommand, Undo ],
			toolbar: [ 'undo', 'redo', '|', 'bold', 'italic' ],
			// ... Other configuration ....
		}
	}
}
```

```html
// app.component.html

> <ckeditor
> 	*ngIf="Editor"
> 	[editor]="Editor"
> 	[config]="config"
> 	...
> </ckeditor>

Reviewer: I would do something like this because the highlight now works incorrectly.
```suggestion
<ckeditor
	*ngIf="Editor"
	[editor]="Editor"
	[config]="config"
	<!-- ... -->
>
</ckeditor>
```

```

### Step 3 (Optional): Migrate the CKEditor&nbsp;5 Angular integration testing suite

If you have any tests that use CKEditor&nbsp;5 objects, you need to update them to use the  `loadCKEditorCloud` function. Here is an example of migrating a test that uses the `ClassicEditor` object:

**Before:**

```javascript

> import { ClassicEditor, ... } from 'ckeditor5';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { ClassicEditor, /* ... other imports */ } from 'ckeditor5';
```

it( 'ClassicEditor test', () => {
	// Your test that uses the CKEditor 5 object.
} );
```

**After:**

```javascript
import { loadCKEditorCloud } from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular';

let cloud;

beforeEach( async () => {
	cloud = await loadCKEditorCloud( {
		version: '{@var ckeditor5-version}',
	} );
} );

it( 'ClassicEditor test', () => {

> 	const { ClassicEditor, ... } = cloud.CKEditor;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	const { ClassicEditor, /* ... other imports */ } = cloud.CKEditor;
```

	// Your test that uses the CKEditor 5 object.
} );
```

### Step 4 (Optional): Clean up the document head entries before each test

> If you are using a testing suite that does not clean up the document head entries before each test, you may need to do it manually. This is important because the CKEditor&nbsp;5 CDN script will inject the editor into the head section of your HTML file and you need to ensure that the head section is clean before each test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a testing suite that does not clean up the document head entries before each test, you may need to do it manually. It is essential because the CKEditor&nbsp;5 CDN script will inject the editor into the head section of your HTML file and, you need to ensure that the head section is clean before each test.
```

> However, there is one downside to this approach. Cleaning up the head entries before each test may slow down the test execution because the browser will need to download the CKEditor&nbsp;5 script each time. In most of the cases, this should not be a problem, but if you notice that your tests are running slower, you may need to consider other solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, there is one downside to this approach. Cleaning up the head entries before each test may slow down the test execution because the browser needs to download the CKEditor&nbsp;5 script each time. In most cases, this should not be a problem, but if you notice that your tests are running slower, you may need to consider other solutions.
```

---
menu-title: Migrate Angular integration from NPM to CDN

> meta-title: Vue CKEditor 5 - migrate integration from NPM to CDN | CKEditor 5 documentation

Reviewer 2: Vue => Angular

meta-description: Migrate Angular CKEditor 5 integration from NPM to CDN in a few simple steps. Learn how to install Angular CKEditor 5 integration in your project using the CDN.
category: migrations
order: 20
---

# Migrating Angular CKEditor&nbsp;5 integration from NPM to CDN

This guide will help you migrate Angular CKEditor&nbsp;5 integration from an NPM-based installation to a CDN-based installation.

## Prerequisites

Remove the existing CKEditor&nbsp;5 packages from your project. If you are using the NPM-based installation, you can remove it by running the following command:

```bash
npm uninstall ckeditor5 ckeditor5-premium-features
```

> Upgrade the CKEditor&nbsp;5 Angular integration to the latest version. You can find the latest version in the [CKEditor&nbsp;5 Builds](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/builds/guides/integration/frameworks/angular.html) documentation.

Reviewer 2: Links should be written with `{@link ...`

Reviewer 2: Let's not use the word Build

Replace the CKEditor&nbsp;5 NPM package imports with the CDN script imports and use the `loadCKEditorCloud` function to load the CKEditor&nbsp;5 scripts. The `loadCKEditorCloud` function is a part of the `@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular` package and is used to load CKEditor&nbsp;5 scripts from the CKEditor Cloud service.

**Before:**

```ts
// app.component.ts

import { Component, ViewEncapsulation } from '@angular/core';
import { CKEditorModule } from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular';
import { ClassicEditor, Bold, Essentials, Italic, Mention, Paragraph, Undo } from 'ckeditor5';
import { SlashCommand } from 'ckeditor5-premium-features';

@Component( {
	selector: 'app-root',
	templateUrl: './app.component.html',
	styleUrls: ['./app.component.css'],
	encapsulation: ViewEncapsulation.None,
	imports: [ CKEditorModule ],
	standalone: true
} )
export class AppComponent {
	title = 'angular';

	public Editor = ClassicEditor;
	public config = {
		licenseKey: '<YOUR_LICENSE_KEY>', // Or 'GPL'.
		plugins: [ Bold, Essentials, Italic, Mention, Paragraph, SlashCommand, Undo ],
		toolbar: [ 'undo', 'redo', '|', 'bold', 'italic' ],
		// mention: {
		//     Mention configuration

> 		// }

Reviewer 2: This doesn't bring any value, we can remove it or add a comment with 
```
// ... Other configuration ....

	}
}
```

**After:**

```ts
// app.component.ts

import { Component, ViewEncapsulation } from '@angular/core';
import { CKEditorModule } from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular';

@Component( {
	selector: 'app-root',
	templateUrl: './app.component.html',
	styleUrls: ['./app.component.css'],
	encapsulation: ViewEncapsulation.None,
	imports: [ CKEditorModule ],
	standalone: true
} )
export class AppComponent {
	title = 'angular';

	public Editor;
	public config;

> 	public ngOnInit() {

Reviewer 2: You can stress with a comment in the code what changed, this way it will be easier to scan.

```js
// ADDED

```

			licenseKey: '<YOUR_LICENSE_KEY>', // Or 'GPL'.
			plugins: [ Bold, Essentials, Italic, Mention, Paragraph, SlashCommand, Undo ],
			toolbar: [ 'undo', 'redo', '|', 'bold', 'italic' ],
			// mention: {
			//     Mention configuration
			// }
		}
	}
}
```

```html
// app.component.html

<ckeditor
	*ngIf="Editor"
	[editor]="Editor"
	[config]="config"
	...
</ckeditor>
```

### Step 3 (Optional): Migrate the CKEditor&nbsp;5 Angular integration testing suite

If you have any tests that use CKEditor&nbsp;5 objects, you need to update them to use the  `loadCKEditorCloud` function. Here is an example of migrating a test that uses the `ClassicEditor` object:

**Before:**

```javascript
import { ClassicEditor, ... } from 'ckeditor5';

it( 'ClassicEditor test', () => {
	// Your test that uses the CKEditor 5 object.
} );
```

**After:**

```javascript
import { loadCKEditorCloud } from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-integrations-common';

let cloud;

beforeEach( async () => {
	cloud = await loadCKEditorCloud( {
		version: '{@var ckeditor5-version}',
	} );
} );

it( 'ClassicEditor test', () => {
	const { ClassicEditor, ... } = cloud.CKEditor;

	// Your test that uses the CKEditor 5 object.
} );
```

> ### Step 4 (Optional): Clean up the head entries before each test

Reviewer 2: `head` is very general term, and for 5s I had a wtf that this means. Either use `<head>` or some more descriptive form.
